>> Student: So you're giving in
streams not from local machine but
over the network?
>> Kyle Simpson: Mm-hm, so you've
made a network request somewhere and
you've got a response stream
that you're listening to?
>> Student: Yeah can you, let's say
you've got two of them coming in,
but you have to wait for
the result for both.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
>> Student: To run some process to, you're
depending on both results, but you don't
know when they're both gonna show up or
when they're both going to finish.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
>> Student: I guess.
>> Kyle Simpson: Mm-hm.
>> Student: How do you, can you,
is there a way to deal with that?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, I mean basically
this has it's less to do with streams, but
it's the idea if I have two different
concurrent things that are happening,
and I don't know what order they're
gonna finish in, but I wanna wait for
both of them to finish.
That general concept in asynchrony
can be modeled with a gate,
which we can do with promise.all.
So if you were to take a promise, similar
to what get standard in did, where it had
a stream and it had a promise on the end,
if you were to attach a promise to the end
of a stream read, very much like what we
just did with the stream complete, right?
Attach a promise to it that tells you
when the stream has finished, and
it gives you all of its contents.
If you were to make a promise for
each of those two streams and
then put both of those
promises into a promise.all,
that promise would resolve whenever
both of them had successfully completed.
>> Student: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Whichever
order they finish in.
>> Student: All right, and
that promise.all obviously-
>> Kyle Simpson: It would look like this.
>> Student: It's an array, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: It would look like this,
if you had a stream1 [SOUND] and
a stream two, right?
And those were attached to respond,
those were response streams from some
basically node Ajax requests, like he
made a get request somewhere else, right?
So all you need to do is call something
very much like the stream complete that we
used to make a promise for stream one.
And then another one for stream two, and
then pass both of those,
and the promise.all.
>> Kyle Simpson: And this will be
a promise that will get resolved whenever
both of those are finished no
matter what order they finish in.
>> Student: Okay, and
what you get back are two objects or
whatever to-
>> Kyle Simpson: You're talking about
the contents of the stream?
So streamComplete the way we wrote it
did not actually concern itself with
the contents.
But you could very easily adapt this
streamComplete to have been listening for
the data, collecting it,
getting all the data from that stream and
then resolving the promise with
the contents of the stream.
Don't make sense?
>> Student: So promise.all then you,
will give you back as many,
return as many outputs as you
have input is that right?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's correct.
>> Student: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: This promise would be
resolved within an array
of all the response
with all of the completions
of these promises.
So right now we're not
completing it with anything, but
we could if we wire this a little bit
to actually have that resolve function
resolve with the contents that
we've collected from stream.
But actually that's much harder
there's packages that already do this.
There's packages that will turn a streams,
completion,
just like get standard in
does that uses one of them.
They'll turn a stream
into a completed promise.
And then you would just call one,
call those on your streams,
pass them into promise.all, and then
what you'd have as a result of the .then
is you'd have a responses array,
where responses of
zero is stream1's content.
And responses of 1 is stream2's contents.
So you can't really use this stream,
complete the way I've written it, but
you could use one of those like
what I'm talking about, or
you could adopt this if you wanna try.
That make sense?
>> Kyle Simpson: This is a general
strategy for any sort of concurrency,
if you have two or
more things happening at the same time.
Don't know when they're gonna finish, but
I want all of the results
whenever they do finish.
Promise.all is kind of your go to for
that.
>> Student: Going back a bit,
is there a rule of thumb for
when you would want to create and
work with duplex streams versus piping,
or treating the pipes of readables?
>> Kyle Simpson: I have never once
created a duplex stream so anecdotally,
I would say not very often.
There are some times on occasion where
you will interact with something that
is created one for you, and maybe you
need to read from it and write to it.
I could imagine, for example, a database
that gave you a duplex stream so
you could write SQL queries to it and
read responses maybe.
But, I don't do that very often.
It's almost always the simplex
streams readables and
writables that you find together.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
honestly, with the database,
I'd probably just end up exposing to,
if I were designing it,
I'd end up exposing a readable and
a writer will stream separately.
It doesn't seem like there's a ton
of benefit to the complexity of
a duplex stream.
But maybe there are some
scenarios where it's useful.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
>> Student2: Why do you use
a REST API over Streams?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well, the REST API is
a sort of a separate kind of question.
I mean, it's a good question,
but it's a separate question.
If the rest API was in the habit
of streaming it's responses, yes.
If the rest API gives you
everything as one big chunk,
you're not gonna get a ton of benefit
out of consuming it as a stream.
But once you have it,
whether you've got it as a stream or
not, if you need to do processing on it, I
would absolutely dump it into a stream and
then do the rest of the process.
But if your rest API has a sort of
streaming response, for example HTTP
is a streaming protocol, and
HTTP can send you chunked responses.
That's an example of streaming, so if you
were downloading from an HTTP server,
that was sending out chunk responses.
Your rest API was sending
out chunk responses,
then yeah it would make
sense to stream those.
But a lot of times a rest API just
give you one big old blob of json,
that's going to be one chunk
in your stream response.
So there isn't as much benefit to
the stream in that specific scenario.
>> Student2: So in that scenario, what
would you use then instead of streams?
>> Kyle Simpson: We just use one of the,
there's about a million different
ajax kinds of methods in node that
can make outbound network requests.
The most common of which we are gonna
actually gonna practice a little bit later
in the course.
But I think one of the most common
ones is they have taken the Fetch API
that was a web based,
web platform API for making Ajax.
There is a port of that to node,
and any time I would make
a outbound Ajax sort of request or
get or post request from node.
I would just use the node fetch.
And by the way, that fetch actually
supports the Streaming API.
So you would either make a regular old
normal fetch when all you
want is just the big thing.
Or if you end up connecting to
something that has a stream,
fetch automatically has
that built into it.
Where you can listen and
receive the stream.
So the web platform has been adding
a bunch of stuff about streams,
JavaScript added in ES 2018,
last year, the AC generators and
with basic generators, we can now
basically have readable streams and
I mean interval streams and
nodes adding support for that.
I think in the next stable version,
if not already.
I might already be in here,
but basically there's a bunch of different
ways now that we can consume those things.
So I would just start by calling fetch and
making a request somewhere.
And then depending on
what I was expecting,
I would either consume it as a stream or
just as a single blob.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Student3: So why do we need streams?
So there's a default size range.
>> Kyle Simpson: I think it's
65k is the internal buffer size.
>> Student3: What would
be the alternative?
We are supposed, I am sorry.
Why do we need chunks?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well if you think about
the scenario like what we've been doing in
this exercise where we're like
converting a whole word upper case,
I know that's silly but think about
doing some kind of processing on a file.
When its only one megabyte in size,
then you use 2 or 3 megabytes of memory
to reread the whole thing in, you convert
it, you write it back out, it’s maybe 2 or
3 times it’s been copied
in RAM at that point.
But if that file was a gigabyte in size,
now all of a sudden you just used up
3 gigabytes of RAM to read the entire
thing into memory, do your transform and
write it back out,
you see how much worse that would be?
As opposed to only having 65K
in memory at any given time
by doing a chunk at
a time to the streaming.
So the advantage of the streaming protocol
is not always a more efficient, but
it's also gonna use much less memory.